Verbal Description: At its highest level, FlickPick is a web app that allows users to search for any given movie, or genre, and in turn receive closely related movies that match the input, as well as the option for browsing if desired. Other streaming services have this related content feature enabled, but only for content that is currently on the platform itself. The same can be done through Google, but not in the same way as we hope to do with FlickPick, as we will have a more streamlined approach. Some of the most important features include a search bar and result functionality that allows an input to be given and closely related movie titles will be suggested. Next is a menu, for options to browse through genres if a user does not have a particular preference. Another feature we would like to implement is a movie of the day option as generated by the website to display a completely random movie as an option to choose from. There will also be a login and logout ability if there is a desire to save previously watched movies or searches, but it won’t be required for someone to use the site. Lastly, we want to make sure to have information about the movies themselves such as where to watch it, a brief description, title, length, and anything else deemed important. We intend to use a combination of React, API calls, JavaScript, HTML, and CSS to complete FlickPick. There is a broad target audience which includes any movie watchers, and people who are interested in discovering new movies.

Justification: Flick Pick is the perfect project for us. Anna recently finished a web development class, and this website will help both of us get an even better understanding of React JS and JavaScript. The choice of Flick Pick is strategic as it has a balance between being challenging enough to grow in our development skills and manageable enough to be completed within a three-month timeframe. We're really passionate about movies and especially decrease the time it takes to choose a movie,and Flick Pick is all about recommending perfect ones. The best part is that our classmates also deal with this issue, so it's something they'll love too. Making a website that helps our friends find great movies is exciting. This project is perfect for us because it's not only about movies – it's also a chance to practice what we learned in web development and basic development classes. We both want to do more web development after we graduate, so this is like a real-world practice. Plus, having a project like Flick Pick in our portfolio will impress future employers. So, Flick Pick is not just a fun project; it's a way for us to get better at what we love, help our friends, and show off our skills for our future careers. It's a win-win!

